=pod

=head1 NAME

Bric::AssetEditing - The creation of elements and putting them together into 
assets

=head1 VERSION

$Revision: 1.1 $

=head1 DATE

$Date: 2001-09-06 21:52:49 $

=head1 BACKGROUND

This document describes the creation of elements and their uses in the 
creation of Business Data.

=head2 Elements

Elements are a definition of what the Business Data can be.   Elements define
data fields and sub elements that they can contain.   It also defines rules 
about the data.   The elements do not afect the layout, but provide sets
of rules that the templates and Business data conform to.

=head2 Business Data

When creating the story, the Busines Data is the values that relate to the
fields.   So if an element contains a field teaser, the Business Data might
be "Aren't Clowns Lovely?".

=head1 More About Elements

The first place one starts when making a new story is with an Element.  An 
element defines the structure of a story.  It lists the data points available to
those creating a story.    There are two types of root element, media and story,
and there are sub elements that can be apart of other elements.   So if a 
story element is created, it can contain page elements, which can contain
paragraph attributes.    The Story Element is a top level element.   While the
Page element is a sub element.   The Page element contains PAragrah 
attributes. 

=over 4

=item Element

A sub element of Media types, Story types, or other elements.

=item Story 

An element that reperesents the top level story.    This can contain other 
elements.

=item Media 

An element the represents the top level media.   This can contain other media
elemnets.

=back

=head2 More Element Types 

An element type is a flag that will alter the behaviour of the element.

=over 4

=item Page

This element will repersent a single page on final publish.

=item Fixed

This element will represent a fixed url page.   A fixed url page does not have
the coverdate or slug in the url string.   It is used for pages like covers.

=item Related Story

This element is used to link to other story objects.

=item Related Media

This element is user to link media objects to this story.

=back

=head2 Elements from element types

So to create the frame work of a story or media asset, create an element based
upon either a story or media element type.   Associate the output channels
that the element will be sent through.   Templates will need to be created
for each of the output channels.

An Output Channel is a group of formatting assets that can deliver the same
content in a different format.   Examples might be a WAP version or an email
version of stories.

See Templates.pod for more formatting info.

=head2 Data Elements on Elements

Each Element can contain any number of Data Elements.  These are fields that
can be set on the element.    The admin interface provides ways of setting
the input of these elements.   Select Menus, text, date fields can all be
set here. 

=head2 Rules for Data Elements

=over 4

=item Required

If selected this field must be present in all story or media assets.   It will
automaticly be created when an asset is called up for editing.

=item Repeatable

If selected this field will be allowed to exist any number of times.   It will
also be allowed to be bulk edited.

=back

=head2 Elements in Elements

Elenents can also contain other non-story/media elements.   These can then 
contain other elements to what ever level of complexity is needed.


=head1 Story Editing

=over 4

=head2 Fields on creation

When a new story is created these are the fields that can be entered.

=item *

title - the name of the story

=item *

slug - a string that will appear in the url of stories that are not marked as 
fixed

=item *

story type - this is where one chooses which story element to base this story 
upon

=item *

source - the rights owner of the story.    Will be used in conjuncton with
coverdate to set the expire date.

=item *

primary category - the main category association of this story.   When other
stories link to this one, the primary category will be used to construct the
url

=item *

priority - the importance of the story in workflow

=item *

cover date - the intended date of publish


=head2 Additional fields on Edit Screen

=item *

description

=item *

expire date - the date at which the story should be unpublished

=item *

content - the area in which elements ad attributes are added and edited

=item *

categories - Additional associations of categories to the story

=item *

Keywords - Words that can be set to describe the story

=item *

Contributers - Users that can be associated with this story

=item *

Notes - an area where one can leave notes for other users

=item *

Trail - a list of actions taken on this story

=back

=head1 Media Editing

This is the area where files can be uploaded and properties can be set on them.
Media elements can hold Data Elements and other Elements in te same way that
Stories can.

=head2 File Uploading

The file that represnets the media object is uploaded here.

=head1 Asset Versioning

Everytime an asset is checked out and then checked back in, a new version is 
created.   It has the same id as the previous asset verion.   


=head2 Viewing Past versions

The Profle screen has a section where, if there is a previous version, one can 
go back and view them.

=head2 Reverting to Past Versions

If an asset is checked out, one can revert the data to a previous versions
data.   The revert will overwrite all the data in the current version and 
replace it with the previous versions data.   It will keep the save version id,
and any versions that existed inbetween the reverted versions will still be 
available

=back
